h1.  Genetic Algorithm - Binary Encoded Example

The following example is a Ruby interpretation based on the idea illustrated "here.":http://www.ai-junkie.com/ga/intro/gat1.html

h2.  The Premise

In this example, we will illustrate the effectiviness of genetic algorithms by simulating a population of chromosomes. Each generation, the chromosomes will be assessed and given a fitness score. The closer a given chromosome is to a predetermined target, the higher the fitness score. Then, by roulette wheel selection, 2 parent chromosomes will be chosen. Chromosomes with a higher fitness score are more likely to be selected. These parent chromosomes will produce 2 offspring chromosomes, with each offspring carrying certain combined traits of their parents, based on a crossover rate. Each offspring may also undergo a genetic mutation, also based on a fixed rate. This process of roulette wheel selection, crossover, and possible mutation is repeated until a new generation of chromosomes is created. This population of chromosomes is assessed for fitness and then the entire process is repeated until a chromosome is produced that matches the predetermined target.

h2. Getting Started

Download the code

<pre><code>git clone git@github.com:kornypoet/genetic_algorithm.git
</code></pre>

h3. Chromosomes

For most testing purposes the following string was used:

<pre><code>"1010011011001000111110100010101110"
</code></pre>

Broken up into its constituent genes with corresponding decoded value

<pre><code>'1010' '0110' '1100' '1000' '1111' '1010' '0010' '1011' '10'
'+'    '6'    '*'    '8'    nil    '+'    '2'    '-'    drop
</code></pre>



